group 3 data analysis questions:


Michael
1. What are the land and water areas (AREALAND, AREAWATR) of different geographic divisions, and how do they compare?


how this could be done:

~Fields like AREALAND and AREAWATR represent the land and water area of each geographic division. 
~STATE, COUNTY, TRACT, or REGION, may represent different hierarchical or spatial divisions.
AREAWATR 
~Use grouping by Geographic Divisions to analyze the total land and water areas within each division
~Calculate the proportion of land to water area within each geographic division. 


2. Are there correlations between population and land area or population and water area?


how this could be done:
~Use fields like population (POP100), land area (AREALAND), and water area (AREAWATR)
~Use Pearson correlation to understand the relationships between population and land area, as well as population and water area. 


3. what percentage of the population lives in metropolitan versus non-metropolitan areas?

how this could be done:
~User fields like CBSA or CSA to distinguish between metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas.
~Also, include POP100 (population count) to get the population of each geographic area.
~Filter Metropolitan vs. Non-Metropolitan Areas: 
	Records with a non-null CBSA or CSA code typically represent metropolitan areas, while records without these codes are usually considered non-metropolitan. 
	We can create a new column called Metro_NonMetro:
		Set the value to "Metropolitan" if CBSA or CSA is non-null.
		Set the value to "Non-Metropolitan" if both are null.

~Aggregate Population by Metropolitan and Non-Metropolitan Areas:
	Use the POP100 field to calculate the total population for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas.
	Sum up POP100 for each group "Metropolitan" and "Non-Metropolitan".

~Calculate the Percentage:
	Calculate the total population (sum of POP100 for all records).
	Divide the metropolitan population by the total population and multiply by 100 to get the percentage of the population in metropolitan areas.
	calculate the percentage for non-metropolitan areas.

Dane

1. How has the incarcerated population changed over the decades, going over population of correctional facilities and juvinile detention centers

segment 3 
P0050003
P0050004

With these tables we can see the changes in our prison populations and the percentage of minors that get into juvinile centers. 

2.
Seeing the change in University Housing

Segment 3
P0050008

With this information we might be able to see estimate the increase of campus housing needs

Kenny
1. (# 13 in the original list) Housing Unit Changes: How did the number of housing units change by decade, and what is the comparison across states?

2. Population Density: How did population density vary across urban and rural areas over the decade?

3. How does population density vary by summary level (e.g., city, county, state)?